The Faithful Crew of the NoreasonA Humble BeginningMany great stories and many great adventures have begun with modest and seemingly simple beginnings. Why I can recall one fantastic and absurd tale beginning with a young girl so bored she decided to chase a rabbit down a hole. And I remember one girl who was swept away in a tornado to a world far more colorful than the one she had lived in. I can even think of a story that began on a simple Friday with a bear without much brains out for a walk in the woods. So, I cannot think of better place to begin this story than with the humble beginning of a humble pelican on the humble isle of Fiddle, in the middle of the much-too-out-of-the-way Archipelago of Naught.Call him Copernicus. A simple pelican of not-so-simple mind. For Copernicus lived in the little town of Fiddle in the middle of the Archipelago, but he never liked his life there very much. It was too simple for his wild imagination. You see, Fiddle was a town built for those who looked for comfort and safety. On one side of the town were large and uncrossable, majestic mountains that rose high into the sky, and on the other side of the little village was a bay that was kept locked up by two giant, crusty, rusty gates built hundreds of years ago. There, the people of the town were safe from the monsters that roamed the seas of the Archipelago and the pirates, who, without the magic word, could not bring their ships past the gates.So Copernicus would cross the little bay, where, beside the mammoth gates, there was a large, single mountain. There, high atop it, he had built an observatory made of brass, where he could see all of the Archipelago. He would spend days in his observatory, cuddled up in the woolen sweater his mother had made him, and look out of his great telescope to the surrounding world. He longed to cast anchor in one of the mysterious bays of the Phayrax's isle, or to see the great Pyramids that lie south, or cut his way through the jungles of the Goola-gula.Day after day he dreamed of a great ship that would toss about in the waves, and outrun the fastest sea monsters and even the sleek pirate ships. He and his friends would laugh and sit on the deck with their tea, and enjoy the sun and the waves, never looking back towards home.It was his life-long dream.But here in Fiddle was where he was born, his mother would tell him, and here he was meant to stay. She always said he shouldn't waste so much time fiddling about with navigation instruments and tools of the sailors, wasting the days away in his little observatory. The only boats that ever left the bay were the little fishing boats, and they only did it in the dead of night, when ghost ships were the only threat. They never went far, and they never went to the other islands of the Archipelago.Copernicus had seen a ghost ship once, though. He was peering into his telescope, looking out across the seas, when he saw the greenish glow of a ship that he could see through. He was so very frightened, but at the same time, he was fascinated. He longed to ask the sailor ghosts of their adventures, and sail with them to lands far away.Once, Copernicus had even stowed away in one of the little fishing boats one night, in the hopes of seeing something wild or terrible. But, he had hid in the nets, and the fisherman found him and scolded him, and sent a boat back to take him to his mother. who, was very displeased with her mischievous son.But as things should happen, as "things" do have a way of happening, in the dark of a night not too long ago, a ship appeared in the bay of Fiddle. It was a vast clipper ship. It barely even fit in the docks of the little town. Copernicus was the first person to see it. He was up early that morning, on his way to his observatory, when he saw the ship sitting there, tossing lightly on the waves of the bay. He thought that perhaps that he was dreaming. He'd never seen such a large ship. Surely, he thought, it was not real. It couldn't be real. And yet, there it was.He went up to its side, where the gangplank on to the deck had been lowered. The ship sat in the early morning fog, beckoning to Copernicus. He wanted so desperately to meet the owner of the ship, that he couldn't resist boarding it to look for the captain.Walking all over the ship, he found no sign of the owner. There were no shipmates or deckhands, and the ship seemed very lonely. It was very clean, and the boards looked almost new. It seemed as though no one had ever been there, and Copernicus hoped, deep inside, that there hadn't, so that he could maybe claim the ship for his own. "No sense in thinking like that though," he scolded himself, knowing that that simply wouldn't be the case. Copernicus had been disappointed before. He knew better.He went from end to end of the ship, looking about for anyone who might tell him where the ship came from. Finally, he went directly to the captain's cabin, and knocked twice on the door. No one answered, so Copernicus decided to peek in to see if perhaps someone was alseep inside. The door creeked open, and Copernicus found that there was no one. He stepped inside to look about.The room was full of amazing things. There was a great globe with all of the world on it. Parts of it, like the axis and the stand were made of the most precious gold. There were books and maps, papers and charts. Copernicus was excited beyond belief. If he could have but one of these maps to study, he might satisfy his curiosity for the rest of his life. He looked over each one, memorizing every detail he could, and every name.And as he was looking around, he saw something lying on the captain's bed. It was a small envelope, and scripted on the front of it in the most perfect cursive was the name "Copernicus".Copernicus almost fell over. Surely this could not be a strange coincidence. This letter was most definitely addressed to him, and no other Copernicus. He picked up the envelope quickly and sat upon the little bed, with a comforter colored blue, like the ocean. He opened the envelope with nervous, shaking fingers. The prospects of such a note were incredible. What could it mean. What would it say. Opening the letter, he found a little piece of paper folded in half, and looked at it. It read:Copernicus, You are the only one who can help me.Please find me.There was no signature, but at the bottom of the page was a strange symbol:And that was it. There were no instructions concerning the boat. It was simply this note. He could leave at once, or he could leave as he pleased. He did not know. But suddenly, with even this little amount of information, his life was changed forever. He would leave Fiddle, and the isle at sunset that day, with the rest of the fishing vessels.The Inspired Giant, the Foolish Sage and the Sleepy PhilosopherCopernicus had only a few friends in Fiddle that he would trust enough to ask to join him. There was the Hereck the Water Bison, and Sedison the Goose, an. one other friend that Copernicus knew he would want along, but knew he wouldn't really have to ask. He would just bring this friend with him: Aristotle, the sleepy lizard. He was rarely awake, but when he was and said something, one could be sure that it would be full of wisdom. Copernicus knew that Aristotle would never pass up the chance to get out and see the world, and Copernicus knew that his wisdom would be invaluable.So, Copernicus set out to find his three friends. He could not take long, though, for he knew that he would have to pack some things, eat a meal, and say goodbye to his mother. The last would be the hardest.He found Hereck in his fields, pulling his plow through the rough island dirt. He told Hereck of the ship, and the letter. Hereck put his hoof to his chin, and thought for what seemed to be a long while. Hereck tended to think like that, in "long whiles"."You know not who this note comes from?" he asked."No, I do not know" replied Copernicus."But then, they must know you," said Hereck."Certainly they must," replied Copernicus."Well, if there is someone who is in need of our aid, then it should be a most noble thing - and the only honorable thing - to do. We should make passage," said Hereck."Good." said Copernicus, "I am going to raise the sails at sunset, and leave through the gates with the other fishing ships. There will be no moon tonight, so we will be safe from pirates for at least a little while.""Well, if this is as vast a ship as you say it is," said Hereck, "then we shall outrun the pirates ease," and he smiled a toothy grin from ear to ear.Copernicus smiled at the thought. "That we shall," he said.He waved goodbye to his friend, who had unhitched his plow and was heading indoors to pack. Hereck's great strength would be crucial for the journey. Sometimes he seemed a bit slow, but it was simply that he thought things completely through, as others sometimes did not. Copernicus had not thought of the fact that there might be people in the world who knew who he was without him knowing them. This was a revelation indeed -- one of the many which Hereck could inspire. His appreciation of things, though subtle and lengthy at times, was as invaluable as Aristotle's insight.Sedison's house was not far from Hereck's fields. It was just over the next hill. Sedison had built the house in the water of his little pond, and did not realize that the wood would rot through. Nonetheless, he always said that he cared little for "speculation" and "details". He lived in his home quite happily as it fell apart. He liked the water anyway. After all, he was a goose.Copernicus knocked upon the door, and Sedison promptly opened it, wading in knee-high water. He was wearing a yellow rain slicker and hat."Sedison, what are you wearing that for. It isn't raining," said Copernicus."No," replied Sedison, "but it might."Copernicus looked up to the sky before he followed Sedison into his home. The sun was out, and there were no clouds to be seen.Inside, Copernicus warily sat down on one of Sedison's slowly rotting chairs. But, he found that the chair was only floating in the waste-high water of the kitchen. Sedison had built steps going down to the kitchen, instead of up, above the water. He had told Copernicus when he was building them that he was certainly less likely to fall down stairs that went down, instead of up, and that if he fell, he would fall into water, rather than onto a hard wooden floor. Copernicus had spent some time trying to make sense of Sedison's logic, but eventually he simply let Sedison be Sedison.Copernicus told him of the note and the ship and the intended journey, and Sedison asked, "How did it get in the gates?""I don't know," replied Copernicus, thinking of it for the first time."It must have flown," replied Sedison, toying with a vial of blue liquid on his kitchen counter. As unlikely as that seemed, Copernicus thought that it was at least one possibility, although he had never heard of such a thing. As Copernicus was thinking that thought, Sedison spilled his solution all over is coat, and turned it blue. He looked quite distressed for a moment, and then turned to Copernicus, forgetting the matter completely."I should certainly like to come with you on this journey. It would give me many opportunities to study knew things!" said Sedison."Good then, we are leaving with the fishing boats, tonight at sunset.""Have you seen the entire ship?" asked Sedison."Why no," said Copernicus."Good. It would appear that we already have something to explore," postulated Sedison.Copernicus left the soggy kitchen, and waded through the foyer to the front door. Sedison followed. "I'll see you tonight then. Don't forget to pack," said Copernicus."I should not like to do that," said Sedison, pondering his feet.With that, Copernicus left. Sedison closed the door behind him with no goodbye. It seemed that he always did that. Copernicus had   Ýnever discovered whether or not Sedison was actually a fool, or if he was simply too preoccupied with his thinking that he came across as such. Nevertheless, his curious nature and unbreakable spirit would be a blessing to the crew. Copernicus could never remember a time when he had seen Sedison unhappy. His amazement with new things, even the most trivial, was inexhaustible.Copernicus began walking toward the cove just south of the docks of Fiddle. At the cove, there were a great number of large rocks along the beach, and it was here that Aristotle always slept -- in the sun. When Copernicus stumbled upon his long green friend, he found him to be sleeping. He picked his friend up, a large bulk, at least half the size of Copernicus himself, and threw him over his shoulder, like a baby.  From there, he carried Aristotle to the great clipper ship. There was nothing that Aristotle should have to pack, Copernicus thought, for he knew that Aristotle owned nothing. He remembered Aristotle once saying, "That which we posses becomes our burden, and enlightened thoughts come not to those who have heavy burdens.. Copernicus had always appreciated the wisdom of the statement, but he found it hard to imagine life without his observatory or his home or many of his maps and drawings.Copernicus left Aristotle on the deck of the ship and went home to pack his own belongings, and tell his mother of the ship, and that he would be leaving soon.The Voyage BeginsCopernicus was the first one at the docks in the late afternoon. He had brought with him, a simple burlap sack that had his rain gear, some food and warm clothes that his mother gave him, and all the papers that he'd written concerning the distances and longitudes of the seven wonders of the Archipelago.After stowing away his gear, he went down to his trusty rowboat, and rowed across the bay towards his observatory. He got out at the little makeshift dock that he had made, and tied his rowboat up. Then, he began the long climb to the top of the mountain where his observatory was. He was out of breath, as he always was, when he reached the top.He went inside, and traveled up the long winding stairs to the top of the observatory, where the great brass telescope sat. Soon, Copernicus thought, it will no longer gather sites, but only dust. He was going to miss his long, chilly nights alone with the great instrument, but he smiled anyway. He was on to better things.He took a stack of papers under his wings, and headed to a small ladder that climbed up into the dome of the observatory. There at the top, was a small instrument. It was a long brass tube, with a large glass sphere at the top. It was ticking and "wrrring", as it calculated the time of day and position of the moon. The device also had seven small gems placed in its shaft, one of each color of the rainbow. Copernicus turned a wheel that shifted the device out of the observatory, into the sky. He stared for a moment, wondering if it would work.After he left the observatory, with the small stack of papers under his wing, he locked the large wooden door behind him, and headed down the mountain. From the top, he could see the entire town of Fiddle and its bay. And there, amidst the miniature fishing boats, he could see his great clipper ship. It was brilliant and large in the dusk, and looked as though it longed to have its sails raised to the wind. Copernicus nodded. A ship like that was not meant to sit idle. It should certainly be on the ocean. He hurried down the hill.When Copernicus got to the ship, he tied his rowboat to it, and looked around the boat to find where Aristotle had gone in his absence. He found the lizard on the bow of the ship, his claws attaching him to the railing, and a very large grin on his sleepy, green face. Copernicus smiled. He thought that Aristotle looked very cozy in the sunlight that still hovered over the bay.Hereck was the next to come out to the ship. He carried a large wooden crate. In it, there were several carvings and a knife to carve with (Hereck would never use it for any other reason - he was too gentle a creature). He also had a small journal to write his thoughts in, and a simple looking abacus. Copernicus wasn't sure what Hereck would do with an abacus, and apparently Hereck saw his puzzled glance, because he said, "I should like to learn something new on our trip, and math will help me with a great deal. I never learned a-rith-me-tic.""Very good, my friend, I'm sure we'd all be willing to help you," said Copernicus with a smile."Perhaps, one day, I shall be able to count the stars," said Hereck, and Copernicus nodded.After a little while longer, Sedison came waddling up the dock, trailing a small red wagon behind him. On it, was a great number of glass instruments, jars of powders and strange looking weights. Sedison was still wearing his yellow slicker and hat. He also had many papers, scrawled all over with diagrams that seemed to make no sense to Copernicus, but they looked interesting nonetheless.At long last, sunset came, and all the fisherman began milling about their boats down at the docks. They all looked at the great clipper ship with a certain amount of envy. Any man of the sea should like to have such a vessel. Copernicus was proud to be its captain -- very proud. He and Hereck went about raising the sails, and Sedison went below to explore the ship. It had many rooms in its hull, and Sedison couldn't wait to find a place to make his new laboratory.The ship drifted out from the docks, with ease. It was as though all Hereck and Copernicus had to do was point it in the right direction, and the ship would go there, without hesitation -- almost without wind. Copernicus found it very comforting. They should have no difficulty getting about the isles.Sedison came up from below with some hats. He was already wearing his own white sailor's cap, tipped to one side, so that he looked tough. He walked over to Copernicus and placed a large blue admiral's hat upon his head. "Since it's your ship, captain.. Copernicus glowed at the title. Then, Sedison walked over to Hereck, and put a sailor's cap on his head as well. But, it was much too small for Hereck's large head, and Hereck took it off when Sedison wasn't looking. Finally, Sedison waddled over to Aristotle and put a hat on his head. It was very large, and fell over Aristotle's eyes, but Aristotle didn't move to take it off. He liked the shade."Every ship should have a name, as well as a crew," said Sedison. "What shall we name her?""I think we should name her for the purpose of her voyage," said Copernicus."What purpose would that be?" asked Hereck."Hmmm," Copernicus thought for a long moment. I don't believe we have one," he said at last."Then we shall call her the Noreason," said Sedison."The faithful crew of the Noreason, diligently sworn to carry out the greatest of goals, but which calls for no loyalty," mumbled Aristotle as if in a dreamy state of appreciation.The sun was almost behind the ocean's horizon, when they were ready at the gate. The moon was beginning to rise on the opposite side. All the fishing boats were gathered about the clipper ship, watching in awe, staring at the huge white sails in the dark purple light. Hereck, on deck, turned to Copernicus at the wheel, and said "How will we know where to go?"Copernicus looked back to the moon, and up to his observatory. "Look up, my friend," he said. Hereck looked up to the observatory on the mountain, and as he did, the sun dropped completely below the horizon and the moon shown full. Slowly, a glow began to appear on the observatory roof, until it seemed so bright that it was about to burst. Seven bright streaks of light, all the different colors of the rainbow shot out into the night, pointing in seven different directions."Pick a color," Copernicus said to his friend."I like the gold," said Hereck, with a bashful grin."Then that's where we shall go.""Where is that?" asked Sedison."The Seven Pyramids of the Faroe Aegeas," said Copernicus."Seven lights for seven destinies, and seven destinies for Copernicus and his crew," said Aristotle, somewhere in the darkness of the bow of the great clipper ship.